# Dashboard
Formerly known as the Steering Wheel, the dashboard will contain an LCD display showing valuable information about the state of the car to the driver. More than that, the Dashboard acts as a rules complaint component, alerting the driver to ongoing and past faults, controlling motor tunes and drive modes, and starting and stopping the car.

Different to previous years, the dashboard will be part of the dashboard rather than the steering wheel in order to reduce composites complexity. Also different to previous years is the computational architecture of the dash. In previous years, an STM32 or Arduino was paired with indicator LEDs and a SPI driven display. In Q24, the dashboard has been converted to run on a <a href="https://www.raspberrypi.com/">Raspberry Pi</a>. This allows the team to step away from embedded graphics, and produce a better looking, more functional dashboard through standard desktop UI/UX platforms such as QT, Electron, or even app development software like React or Flutter.

## Purpose
The main purpose of the dashboard is to display certain information to the driver like:
- RPM
- Wheel Speed
- Temperatures (Battery Cells, Motor, Inverter, ...)
- Battery Pack Voltage
- Cell Voltage
- Power Draw
- Current
- Power Regeneration
- Drive Mode (Acceleration, Endurance, ...)
- Faults (Brake, Temperature, Throttle, ...)
- Anything else you may think is useful

The Dashboard will also be responsible for controlling the software start and stop of the car. This includes the [[EV.10 Vehicle Operations#EV.10.5 RTD Sound|Ready to Drive Sound]] and signaling the [[VCU]] to close the AIRs.

## Rules
As always, the rules listed below are for reference only. They may be incomplete. It is the shared responsibility between the entire team to ensure that all FSAE design rules are being met. If this list is missing something, please submit a PR (Pull Request).
- [[EV.10 Vehicle Operations#EV.10.5 RTD Sound]]
- [[EV.5.7 APPS & Brake Plausibility Check]] -> for fault display (Fault generated by [[VCU]])
- [[EV.5.4 Grounded Low Voltage System]]

## Relevant Documents
- [[VCU]]
- [[CAN bus]]
- CarCad of Dashboard